Hi there.
This is the Uluru and we'll come back.
So in the last lecture we have installed the GBK driver and we have started making some changes in the
code.
So we are loading the driver here and now we are ready to refactor the rest of the code.
So let's go into this class called Launch Java, which is where we are launching the application.
Right.
And in the main method here, we are invoking this particular method called load data.
And load data is essentially responsible for loading the data from the text files.
So so far we have been reading from the text files and now we are going to change that and we will change
that in order to read from the database.
Right.
And start as the start of the bookmarking process itself.
So for now, I'm commenting this code out and in the next lecture I will uncomment it.
So in this particular lecture, the goal is to refactor the code so that we can load the data from the
database.
And for loading the data, we will be using search queries.
So in this lecture we will look at select queries and in the subsequent lecture, when we uncomment
this and when we when we run this, the bookmarking process will start.
And you may recall that it's a randomized process.
So we are not collecting the input from the user, but we are doing it in a random way.
And as the bookmarks are getting are getting bookmarked, the data has to be returned to the database.
So we will insert some we will use the insert queries for that, for loading the data.
It's going to be select queries for inserting the data into the database.
It will be insert queries.
And in a subsequent lecture we will also look at update queries because you may recall that we also
have this setting the kid friendly status of bookmarks.
Now if an editor is going to set the set a particular bookmark as kid friendly, then that particular
information needs to be captured with the with the bookmark saying that that particular bookmark has
been set as kid friendly.
Similarly, there was also another feature where we share certain bookmarks with a partner website.
So for all of that, we need to update the existing data and for that we will be using update queries.
So in each lecture, we are going to refactor some part of the code and we are also going to learn about
certain SQL queries in doing so.
So in this particular lecture, we will be we will change the entire code from reading from the text
files to reading from the database.
And for that we need to use a select queries.
So we will begin by looking at setup query and we will look at a very basic form of select query.
And then we will, we will gradually improve it to try to make it more complex and we will try to get
a better understanding of the select queries.
Now some of the code, actually most of the code has been refactored, and the only code that we are
going to write in this particular lecture is to read data for the books, for movies, web links and
users.
The code has already been written in the interest of time.
So so only the books data has to be read.
And we will look at we will write some code for that, but we will still discuss the code that has been
written for the other three types of data, and it is very similar to what has been written.
So let's go ahead and first, let's look at the select query itself.
And for that, let's just log into database and use some simple queries and we will progressively build
that query and try to get a better understanding of the select query itself.
After that, we can come back and we can make our code changes here.
So here I am.
So my command prompt.
So I'm just logging into my SQL as a root user.
So I have to use.
Jerry underscore now.
Sure tables.
So these are the different tables that we have.
First, let's consider book and publisher and let's try to print the the the title of the book along
with the publisher, the publisher who has published that book.
But before doing that, let's just print all the titles in the book, as well as all the names of the
publishers.
So for that, we use a simple select query.
We say select title from.
Book.
So these are the five different books.
Now let's say select.
Name.
Frem publisher.
So we have five publishers here.
So each book is associated with one of these publishers.
So Value then, for example, is published by Wilder Publications.
The second book is by the second publisher.
So there is a 1 to 1 correspondence here.
Now, so here this is the select query.
Select is the reserved keyword, and it is followed by immediately followed by the column names which
we want to view, whose data we want to view.
And then the frame, class and frame is followed by the tables.
So we are saying that we want to view the data and this in these tables it can be more than one table.
So now the next query has to be displaying both the title and the name in the same query.
And for that we need to make use of both the tables, book and publisher.
And that's called us.
That's called us joining the tables.
And that is very commonly done.
So we have using in our database design, we have normalized the tables.
We have split them into multiple tables.
Now we want to view the data from these different tables.
And for that we need to join the tables.
So let's just say select title comma name.
My publisher.
This is all we do.
And.
And this is the data that we are getting.
Now here there is a lot of unwanted data.
Now Walden is published by Wilder Publications, which is fine, but you can see that WILDER Walden
Over here we have a rule which says that it is published by double publications, which is not true.
It is published by only one publisher, which is Wilder Publications.
And then it says that Walden is also published by Touchstone and these different things.
And the same.
The same is happening with every other book.
Also, the second book is published by Dover Publications, which is correct, but it is not published
by the Wilder Publications or Touchstone here, or media or Prentice Hall.
So the reason why this is happening is because.
When we do a joint like this, it's going to do a cross product of both these tables.
So it's going to associate them with all five of them.
Then it's going to associate the second book with all five of them and the third book with all five
of them.
So that's not what we want.
So what we what we need is we need to filter this data.
And for that, we need to apply certain conditions in our query.
So let's do this.
The way we do it is first, let's put an alias here so we can put an alias for the book table.
So that we can use the alias.
Now we have to say where be dot?
Now, if you recall, the book table has this field called Publisher Underscore ID, which is a foreign
foreign key, which is a foreign reference to the ID field in the publisher.
So every row, every particular book has a certain publisher.
So that publisher ID is there in the book table within that row, and that is referencing a particular
publisher in the publisher table.
So we would say B dot publisher underscore ID.
So publisher underscore ID is a field is a column and the book table.
And we say equals to be dot 80.
So now if we do this.
So you can see that we have the correct associations.
So Walden is now associated with other publications because the row within the Walden had a publisher
ID, which is matching with the ID and the publisher table.
So this is coming from the publisher table and all other IDs in the publisher table will not match that
particular publisher ID and that's how we get this.
We get this data.
So in case if you're getting confused, just pause this video and just think about it and it should
be clear.
So that's what the that's how you join the tables and you use the conditions in this way.
So this is the way of course, this is also a keyword and you can use such kind of aliases.
Now, I have a bunch of queries here.
So so this is a simple query, still a simple search query.
And we will try to learn a little bit about more, more about the SQL queries.
So we will just use more tables here.
So here we have an e-book and publisher.
Let's also add author related information.
And this is almost identical to the query that we will be using later to load the to load the book data.
So this is the first query, so let me just execute it.
So this here we are using book publisher like in the previous query and author and also book underscore
author.
And these are the types of data that we want to print the ID title and the publisher name, publisher
name, title and publisher name.
We were also printing earlier and we also want to print the author's name and the Amazon rating of the
book and the conditions are broad publisher underscore ID equal to priority, which is from the previous
query.
But for the book we know that book underscore author is the connecting table between book and author,
right?
Because a book can be published by multiple authors and a single author can publish multiple books.
So the condition is B ID.
So it is the primary key in the book B is for book P publish P stands for publisher, here is for author
and the alias we are using for book underscore author is B where b b is for the first word book an E
for the author.
So we here the condition is b dot id is equal to be a book underscore ID.
You may recall that within the book underscore author table we had book underscore ID and author underscore
ID and they are foreign keys to the ID field in the book and to the ID field in the author.
So the condition here is ID equal to be a dot book underscore ID.
So that's what we are doing here.
So that's connecting a book to a book, underscore ID in the book, underscore author.
And from within that row we also have author ID.
So we will say be a dot author underscore ID equal to a dot ID.
So this is how we are going to merge the four tables.
So let me click here.
So here we are.
So we have all the data here that we need.
The only thing is this fourth book, Headfirst Design Patterns, has been written by four different
authors.
Eric Freeman And these are the four different authors.
The rest of the books were written by a single author, and because of that, because it's being written
by four different authors, we have four different rows here, but it would be nice if we have a single
row here and if we list all of these authors within the within this particular row instead of having
four rows, it would be nice to have a single row.
And for that we can use something called group by.
Here is a query.
It's just the same query.
Only this last line has been added and this query is still incomplete.
So what group buyer is going to do is it's going to group this data that we see here by the data that
we see here by ID.
So we are just saying group by B dot ID.
So that's what we are doing.
So let me just also copy this.
Here it is.
But the problem here is for this head first design patents, it's printing only one author.
So what is happening is it is grouping all of this data by brand ID.
So it's also grouping this particular these four rows by B ID ID is just the for the value for here,
but it is printing only one of them.
But if we want all of those, all of the three values, the rest of the three to be printed as less,
then we need to apply the next query, which is almost identical to the previous query.
But here for a dot name we are saying group underscore copycat and we are saying a dot name separator.
And the separator is this.
So essentially what we are doing is within this particular group, within each group, we are concatenating
the author names.
So if it is just when we are grouping for certain rows, they have only a single row.
But for this one, for where the ID is, for there are four different rows and we are saying concatenate
all of the authors and separate the names by bi comma.
And that's what we are doing here.
So we are saying group underscore cat.
So group underscore cat is an inbuilt function which is going to contact and we are saying a name has
to be concatenated using the separator comma, so let's just execute that.
So this is the only change from the previous query.
Now, as you can see here, the values have been concatenated.
So that's what the group by now, group by also can be associated with a having class having class,
which is an optional.
So here we are saying that it's just we are just adding this having class here.
So as you can see, we are progressively building the query.
So here we have the having class and here we are saying within the group, show me only this data.
If within a group the group size is more than one.
So we are saying count off ID should be greater than one.
Where count is n is called as an aggregated function.
And there are also other aggregated functions like sum, average, min, max and so on.
But here the count is for counting the number of rows within a particular group, and we are saying
that the number of rows has to be greater than one, and there is only one such row, which is one such
group, which is the group which had the ID value of four.
So now, instead of four of these, it's painting only the eye, only the row which had died for because
the rest of the groups like the first group, second group and all of them, they had only a single
row in each of the groups.
Right.
Only this one had four authors.
So that's what that.
Now, next one is order by.
So this is about sorting.
So it's just a previous query.
But I remove this having class.
We don't need that because without that, I think it would be much more easier to understand this query
as it displays more rows.
So it is the query before that.
But we are saying order by here or by Amazon rating and we are saying display all of the results and
descending order of the in descending order of of rating.
So it's like the sort by but in descending order of the rating.
So let me just copy this.
Now, as you can see, it is displaying all of that.
But as you can see, it is they are all ordered in descending order of the rating information of the
book rating.
And the IDs have also been changed here.
So they are no longer an increment or an incremental order of the IDs.
So they got changed.
Now, here is another condition.
We are saying just we are applying this condition, the same query.
We are saying that Amazon rating has to be greater than or equal to 4.5.
So let's just run that also.
It's very straightforward.
So that's it.
Now it's just the previous results set, but we are displaying only those that have a rating of 4.5
or more than that.
So the final one had 4.3.
So it got filtered out.
And let's look at one more query, which with another condition.
So we are just adding one more condition.
So all of these conditions here are joined by and here.
So this one is about we are saying that the author name should be something like this.
A percentage block percentage is a placeholder and we are saying block so it will display the book that
has been written by Joshua BLOCK.
So it's just the same.
It's going to be the same output as previous, but only the book that has been written by Joshua Bloch
here.
The second book will be printed.
There you go.
So you have only effective Java book, which is also one of the main books that we are following in
this course.
So that's it.
So this is what it is.
So this is what we have here.
And so we are using four tables.
But when you're working on professional projects, it would be very common for you to write really complex
queries where you join maybe 15, 20 tables or even more than that.
And you are you will have lots and lots of conditions here.
So with experience, when you're working on some real projects, you will you will learn about writing
such big queries.
It's just quite easy, actually.
It's just you just need some practice or a little bit of practice.
And with that you'll be able to write some really complex queries and do some amazing stuff by using
a skill set of queries.
Now, I think we have taken a lot of time in going through in discussing these search queries.
So let me stop here and in the next lecture we will actually refactor the code.
Thank you.
And these queries will also be available in the resources section.
So you can take a look at that.